So now that we have this,
we have this other thing called emits.
And so to kind of basically
provide a quick overview for
those who might not
have used it in View 3.
If you remember inside of your code,
whenever you wanted to emit an event
within Vue,
you would actually use dollar sign emit.
So let's say this click handler
right here, you say emit and
then some sort of event.
So this would be test-event.
And so where am I?
I'm on the restaurant card.
So, if we go over to our app,
and go to our restaurant, yep,
we'll see here, wait,
something, okay, we're good.
So if we go inside of the Vue dev tools,
and let me pull this up a little bit.
Wait, restaurant card, yes, okay,
yah, yah, I'm in the right place.
And then let's go to the timeline.
You'll see that when I click Delete,
it's actually showing me here that,
[SOUND] here it is,
here's the custom event, here we go.
It's fired off this
event called test-event.
And so this is actually, for
those who haven't used it before,
this follows basically basic
JavaScript conventions, right?
Because you have an event that's
triggered somewhere, it bubbles up and
then you wanna do something with it.
So that's how currently we're
working with our cards right now,
is that it's emitting an event,
like delete restaurant, for example,
and then the parent who has
the data will then go ahead and
perform the necessary tasks to do that.
So, the thing is, especially in Vue 2,
this was actually all
that you basically did.
And what happened was, components got
a little bit complex because you had this
emitting events here and there.
It was kind of hard to track.
And so in Vue 3, we introduced an option
similar to props where you can define
the kinds of events that
the component is emitting.
And so typically, what we saw
before is that it's just defined as
an array with the list of
the names of the events.
But with the compiler macro and
TypeScript,
I do think it gets a lot cleaner.
So we have here is we can say,
defineEmits, and
then inside of defineEmits,
it can take an array, just like this.
Or rather than having
just an array like this,
I'm gonna comment this out so
that we have this for comparison.
We're actually gonna give
our events a type, and
this is actually super helpful
particularly with events.
Because what we end up getting
is the ability to say, okay, so
we have an event that comes in, and
we can say it's just a generic event.
But you could also be specific.
You could be like, this is a keyboard
event, and that keyboard event,
we'll do more of event handlers later,
but this is pretty nice.
So for now we know that this event is
gonna be called delete-restaurant,
just to double check, yep.
So you have your e here, you pass in the
name of the event that's gonna happen, and
then after that, you're gonna pass in
whatever payload that it's expecting.
And then whether or not it's supposed to
return anything, and it typically not,
so it's void.
So in that particular case,
we have e here.
We know that it's gonna have a payload and
the payload is going to be,
[SOUND] it should be restaurant.
So we'll type that just like this.
Okay, there we go.
So what's nice about this now is that
when we wanna actually use this,
right, cuz before all you could
do is define the name of it.
So now when we call the emits,
something pretty cool happens.
When we emit the thing,
if I hit Command+Space and hit Up,
you'll actually notice that it actually
lists the event names that we've defined
in the auto complete.
So even though it's a string and not
a constant, it actually knows that, hey,
I actually should look for this string.
So not only can I do that, then I can
even say, okay, well, if I did 123,
for example, it'll say hey, by the way,
this particular event is looking for
a restaurant.
And this is pretty big because as we know,
events can be really clunky to manage in
JavaScript, especially cuz
there's different types and
we expect it to do different
things at different times.
So being able to type your events and
be very specific about what kind of
thing we're expecting, that's huge.
So now all we gotta do then is
basically we want the props.restaurant,
and that's it.
And so with all that autocomplete, you get
that because you're typing your events,
which, again, is something in
my opinion you want to be doing.
Because when you don't do something
like this, emits get really,
really tricky to track and much less
trying to figure out what they do.
And it almost seems like every time
you have to debug an event that's
being emitted,
you have to start over from figuring out
the stack trace of why it's a certain way.
Whereas here we're being so
explicit that a delete-restaurant
event will take a payload that is
of type restaurant, that's it.
And I think that does wonders for
us when it comes to
actually scaling our code.
So, now that we've come
to the end of that,
does anyone have any questions
about what we just covered, yes?
>> Why don't we have to import
define emits and define props?
>> That is a great question.
So one of the things that, I feel like
the Java community kinda goes back and
forth a little bit on this with, is that,
they try to strip away any global imports
that you might need just to, I guess, make
it one less thing that you have to import.
And because Vue knows for
a fact that you're in script setup,
these are the kind of the compiler
macros that I was talking about,
where there are optimizations
done in advance.
However, there really is nothing
stopping you from saying defineProps,
defineEmits, because I can totally
see the value in being explicit, and
it's not gonna yell at you.
But on the other hand, if you're one of
those people that wants to shift away as
much as humanly possible,
that is there for you.
But I will go and leave this here for
record keeping sake, and
then actually I'll just
fuse these together.
There we go.